---
title: v3.8.0
type: major
---

**Bundled frontend: [v1.0.0](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend/releases/tag/1.0.0)**

**Features:**
* New user interface based on Vue.js and Bootstrap.
* User interface can optionally be deployed and upgraded independently of the Dependency-Track server.
* Package repositories are now configurable.
* Package repositories can now be identified as 'internal'. Components identified as 'internal' will be analyzed using internal repositories.
* Added additional logging and notifications for OSS Index and NPM Audit analyzers.
* Added the ability to publish system notifications when vulnerability analyzers encounter communication or other errors.
* Added several occurrences of counts for various items throughout the UI.

**Fixes:**
* Corrected the percentage value of findings audited.
* Fixed URL to Maven Central which prevented the MavenMetaAnalyzer from retrieving component metadata.
* Changed logging behavior when internal components are identified.
* Improved accuracy of internal CPE analyzer which may have lead to false negatives in some situations.
* Fixed issue where the CPE value defined in a BOM was not being persisted if the component previously existed.
* Fixed issue which prevented the HexMetaAnalyzer from executing preventing it from retrieving component metadata for Erlang or Elixir components.

**Security:**
* All Dependency-Track server releases now include a complete CycloneDX software bill-of-materials.
* Added missing permission checks to repository API endpoints.

**Upgrade Notes:**
* The `nist` and `index` directories inside the Dependency-Track data directory will be deleted upon upgrade. This will force the NVD to be downloaded and reprocessed and the indexes to be rebuilt.
* The internal vulnerable software dictionary, generated automatically from the NVD, will be wiped upon upgrade. This will take several minutes to complete and should not be interrupted.

###### dependency-track-embedded.war

| Algorithm | Checksum |
| SHA-1     | 091627dfa144a1313bf9090d8f67b4760e635b23 |
| SHA-256   | 56674c40da9dc4277b6c8238d0dc6cc28bdf3b4cc51b7b845606b1a2c149070b |

###### dependency-track.war

| Algorithm | Checksum |
| SHA-1     | 1db04afbc1b66421dd6fe0db816ec14362b895d1 |
| SHA-256   | 9fd73c4ea24352b6165106c1d5a1b88bd43ea9e6ba0e15a733a217a59d7bd268 |

###### Software Bill-of-Materials (SBOM) ######

[bom.xml](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track/releases/download/3.8.0/bom.xml)
