---
title: v4.0.0
type: major
---

**Features:**
* Flexible, project-centric data model
* Added policy engine, configurable policies, policy evaluation, and auditing workflow
* Added default license groups
* Anonymous access to Sonatype OSS Index is now enabled by default
* Component vulnerabilities are now attributed to the analyzers responsible for finding them 
* Added support for CycloneDX 1.2 and SPDX 2.2
* Added component support for Blake2b and Blake3 hash algorithms
* Added component support for SWID Tag ID
* Projects now have identity, similar to components, and support coordinates (group, name, version), CPE, Package URL, and SWID Tag ID
* Added support for firmware and container component types
* When generating a CycloneDX BOM from a project or component, v1.2 of the spec is now produced
* Updated SPDX license list to v3.11
* Dropped support for NVD JSON v1.0 data feeds
* Optimized NVD mirroring logic
* Inactive projects are omitted from portfolio metrics
* Updates to the notification email template for BOM consumed and BOM processed

**Fixes:**
* Fixed issue with scoped NPM packages not being identified correctly
* Fixed issue that failed to report new vulnerabilities on existing components
* Fixed broken weakness (CWE) link on some vulnerabilities
* Fixed failure on mail notifications when multiple addresses were configured
* Fixed container healthcheck to specify use of no-proxy
* Fixed issue where component descriptions in a BOM were not being saved


**Security:**


**Upgrade Notes:**
* The Dependency-Track v4 data model is incompatible with previous releases. As a result, it is not possible to simply upgrade as with previous versions. A data migration is required to update from 3.8 to 4.0. The migration is a standalone set of scripts that must be executed against the database in order to migrate the data to the new model. Refer to the official [v3.8.0 to v4.0.0 Migration Project](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/v3.8.0-v4.0.0-migration) for more information.
* Four Dependency-Track distribution variants are provided. Refer to [Distributions]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _docs/getting-started/distributions.md %}) for details.
* The traditional WAR distribution is deprecated and no longer supported. It is still being produced as of this release but will be discontinued in a future release.
* Docker images have been moved from the OWASP organization on Docker Hub to a dedicated [Dependency-Track organization](https://hub.docker.com/u/dependencytrack).
* The FrontEnd requires deployment to the root ("/") context. Deploying to any context other than root is no longer supported.
* Some APIs have changed as of this release. APIs that were specific to the global component model have been removed. APIs that referenced a 'dependency' in the model have changed. Components are now assigned directly to projects themselves, thus eliminating the need for 'dependency' objects in v4.
* The MySQL Connector distributed with the Docker image has been updated to version 8.0.22. When using MySQL, `ALPINE_DATABASE_DRIVER_PATH` has to be set to `/extlib/mysql-connector-java-8.0.22.jar`. Note that `ALPINE_DATABASE_DRIVER` may need to be updated as well. Refer to the [official upgrading instructions](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/connector-j-upgrading-to-8.0.html).
* The Postgres driver distributed with the Docker image has been updated to version 42.2.18. When using Postgres, `ALPINE_DATABASE_DRIVER_PATH` has to be set to `/extlib/postgresql-42.2.18.jar`.

###### dependency-track-apiserver.war

| Algorithm | Checksum |
| SHA-1     | 9124352542544c5662d3ebf34d951e61f08ff231 |
| SHA-256   | 6b6b8d608b467da087fb7ebe12fb6bbb2a418d97168baa186b1320fdb3b49a91 |

###### dependency-track-bundled.war

| Algorithm | Checksum |
| SHA-1     | 9a4f516e5fcd6eae117465732e3dcaa69227d238 |
| SHA-256   | 2e66976b5f890186e64255484f262564e23e8a3ce482769374959c7ddc55c42c |

###### dependency-track.war

| Algorithm | Checksum |
| SHA-1     | a489586be032890ec6cddc5ec839da57026837a7 |
| SHA-256   | 152819d9b80377f6b672fbdc6448d7ea250f3bba43c479c335404faa700d9b24 |

###### Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) ######

[bom.json](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track/releases/download/4.0.0/bom.json)
[bom.xml](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track/releases/download/4.0.0/bom.xml)
